[ADD] livechat: added chatbot doc (#4297)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/websites/livechat/chatbots.rst

========
Chatbots
========

A *chatbot* is a program designed to mimic a conversation with a live human. Chatbots are assigned
a script of pre-written steps to follow. These scripts are designed to anticipate a visitor's

> potential response, and lead them through a series of questions and answers the same way an live

Reviewer: ```suggestion
potential response, and lead them through a series of questions and answers the same way a live
```

> team member would. Chatbots can be customized to fill various roles, depending on the page of the

Reviewer: Maybe you could name a few of the various roles here that a chatbot could help fill? Unless that's better left unsaid and just explained in depth below, up to you

Author: I originally had included a list of examples later in the doc, but I removed them because I was worried it looked like they would either be pre-configured with the app or that it was starting to look a bit too "sales-y".  However, I don't think it would be an issue to include them in the intro as long as I don't expand too much. 👍

website they are assigned and the messages included in the script, among other criteria.

.. image:: chatbot/chatbot-visitor-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the chat window with a helpdesk ticket created in Odoo Live Chat.

Build a chatbot
===============

> Before creating a new chatbot, the :guilabel:`Live Chat` application must first be installed on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before creating a new chatbot, the *Live Chat* application must first be installed on the
```

Did we land on `:guilabels:` or `italics` for app/module names? Genuinely can't keep track at this point but I'll make the suggestion here, and will try to keep my suggestions consistent

Author: I debated on this one because I believe we landed on italics, but since it involves a directive (installing the app), I went with guilabel. I am going to rewrite the sentence for clarity, but I think you are right, I think it is italics.

database. This can be done directly from the :menuselection:`Apps` menu by searching for
:guilabel:`Live Chat` in the :guilabel:`Search bar` and clicking :guilabel:`Install`.

Alternatively, :guilabel:`Live Chat` can be installed and enabled by navigating to the
:menuselection:`Website application --> Configuration --> Settings` and checking the box labeled

> :guilabel:`Livechat`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Livechat`. Once enabled, the database will refresh, and the *Live Chat* application will be accessible.
```

Once the *Live Chat* application has been installed on the database, open it and go to
:menuselection:`Configuration --> Chatbots`.

.. note::

>     When the *Live Chat* app is installed, a sample chatbot is created, named *Welcome Bot*. As the

Reviewer: Is *Welcome Bot* something they can delete? Is it just for internal training/instructional use?

    script for this chatbot features a simple conversational flow and several of the available
    step-types, it can be used as a starting point. Additional steps can be added to the script and
    adjusted as needed.

    .. image:: chatbot/chatbot-welcome-bot.png
       :align: center
       :alt: View of the the Welcome Bot script in Odoo Live Chat.

> To create a new chatbot, click :guilabel:`New`. This will open a blank chatbot details page. Enter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new chatbot, click :guilabel:`New`. This opens a blank chatbot details page. Enter
```

> a name in the :guilabel:`Chatbot Name` field. Click on the :guilabel:`Edit Image` icon in the upper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a name in the :guilabel:`Chatbot Name` field, and click on the :guilabel:`Edit Image` icon in the upper
```

right corner of the form to add a photo.

Create a chatbot script
-----------------------

> After the new chatbot has been created and named, it needs an accompanying script. Navigate to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the new chatbot has been created and named, it needs an accompanying script. Navigate to the
```
Why?

Author: Good catch! I will add a line with additional context 👍

:guilabel:`Script` tab and click :guilabel:`Add a Line` to open the *Create Script Steps* form.

> This form needs to be filled out for each line of text (dialogue) that the chatbot will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This form needs to be filled out for each line of text (dialogue) that the chatbot might need to
```

deliver during the conversation.

First, enter the content of the message in the :guilabel:`Message` field. Then, select an option

> from the :guilabel:`Step Types` drop-down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from the :guilabel:`Step Types` drop-down menu.
```

         conversation.

   .. tab:: Question

      Question steps are used to provide visitors with pre-written answers to choose from. The
      answer a visitor selects will either lead to a new step in the conversation, or can lead to
      an optional link to a new webpage.

      .. tip::
         Question steps should only be used when visitors are provided options to select.

   .. tab:: Email

      This step prompts visitors to provide their email address, which will be stored and can be
      used by team members later to follow up with additional information.

      The only accepted inputs for this step-type are email addresses that are in a valid format.
      If a visitor attempts to enter anything other than a valid email address, the chatbot will
      respond with a message stating it does not recognize the information submitted.

      .. image:: chatbot/chatbot-invalid-email.png
         :align: center
         :alt: View of a chatbot responding to an invalid email.

   .. tab:: Phone

      Similar to email, this step type prompts the visitor to enter their phone number, which can

>       be used at a later time to follow up with additional information, or to schedule demos, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      be used at a later time to follow up with additional information, to schedule demos, and more.
```

   .. tab:: Forward to Operator

>       This step forwards the conversation on to an active live chat operator, so that they can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      This step forwards the conversation to an active live chat operator, so that they can
```

      continue assisting the visitor. As the conversation transcript is passed on to the operator

>       as well, they will be able to pick up where the chatbot left off. This not only saves time,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      as well, they will be able to pick up where the chatbot left off. This not only saves time
```

>       for all parties involved, but it can help qualify conversations before they reach live human

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      for all parties involved, it can also help qualify conversations before they reach live human
```

      operators.

      .. note::
        If no active operator is available on the channel, the chatbot will continue the
        conversation with the visitor. Therefore, additional steps should be added after this one
        to ensure that there is no abrupt end to the conversation.

        .. image:: chatbot/chatbot-no-operator.png
           :align: center
           :alt: View of a chatbot follow up messages when no live chat operator is available.

   .. tab:: Free Input/Multi-Line

      The free input step allows visitors to respond to questions without providing pre-written
      responses. Information provided in these responses will be stored in the chat transcripts.
      Choose between :guilabel:`Free Input` and :guilabel:`Free Input (Multi-Line)` depending on
      the type and amount of information being requested from the visitor.

   .. tab:: Create Lead

>       This step will create a lead in the :guilabel:`CRM` application, and assign it to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      This step will create a lead in the *CRM* application, and assign it to a
```

      specific team (as identified in the appropriate field.)

   .. tab:: Create Ticket

      This step will create a ticket in the :guilabel:`Helpdesk` application, and assign it to a
      specific team (as identified in the appropriate field.)

Only if
~~~~~~~

> Chatbot scripts operate on an if/then basis, which means that the next question presented to the
> visitor is determined by the answer they provide to the previous question. To continue the
> progression of the conversation, the form for a new step contains a field labeled *Only If*. This
> field is where the progression of questions is defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chatbot scripts operate on an if/then basis, which means that the next question presented to the
visitor is determined by the answer they provide to the previous question.

To continue the progression of the conversation, the form for a new step contains a field labeled *Only If*. This
field is where the progression of questions is defined.
```

Reviewer: Looks wonky here but my suggestion was to break up into 2 paragraphs at "question..." and "...To"

       :alt: View of the new message form emphasizing the Only If field.

How to test a script
--------------------

In order to ensure that all visitors have a satisfactory experience with the chatbot, each message
needs to lead to a natural conclusion. Chatbot scripts should be tested to confirm there are no
dead-ends, and to get an understanding for what the visitor will see when they interact with the
chatbot.

.. important::
   If there is an answer or input provided by the visitor that is not assigned a corresponding
   follow-up response, the conversation will stop (*dead-end*). Since the visitor cannot re-engage
   the chatbot, they will have to re-start the conversation by refreshing the chat window, or their
   browser.

To test the performance of a chatbot, first click on the :guilabel:`Test` button at the top left of
the chatbot script page. Then, upon being redirected to the testing screen, answer the chatbot
prompts the same way a potential site visitor would.

When the script has reached an end-point, the message *Conversation ended...Restart* will appear at
the bottom of the chat window. To begin the conversation at the beginning of the script, click on

> the :guilabel:`Restart`. To return to the script page, click :guilabel:`Back to edit mode` at the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Restart`. To return to the script page, click :guilabel:`Back to edit mode` at the
```

========
Chatbots
========

A *chatbot* is a program designed to mimic a conversation with a live human. Chatbots are assigned
a script of pre-written steps to follow. These scripts are designed to anticipate a visitor's
potential response, and lead them through a series of questions and answers the same way a live
team member would. Chatbots can be customized to fill various roles, from customer support, to
creating leads, to collecting contact information. The goal of the chatbot will depend on the page
of the website they are assigned, and the messages included in the script, among other criteria.

.. image:: chatbot/chatbot-visitor-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the chat window with a helpdesk ticket created in Odoo Live Chat.

Build a chatbot
===============

Before creating a new chatbot, the *Live Chat* application must first be installed on the database.
This can be done directly from the :menuselection:`Apps` menu by searching for :guilabel:`Live

> Chat` in the :guilabel:`Search bar` and clicking :guilabel:`Install`.

Author: I discussed this with @samueljlieber, since I am directing them to enter something in the search bar, it is part of the directions and, it should have a guilabel. 
I will update the format for Live Chat (with the backticks) 👍

    new steps can be added to customize the script as needed.

    Welcome Bot can be deleted (or archived).

    .. image:: chatbot/chatbot-welcome-bot.png
       :align: center
       :alt: View of the the Welcome Bot script in Odoo Live Chat.

To create a new chatbot, click :guilabel:`New`. This opens a blank chatbot details page. Enter a
name in the :guilabel:`Chatbot Name` field and click on the :guilabel:`Edit Image` icon in the
upper right corner of the form to add a photo.

Create a chatbot script
-----------------------

Once the new chatbot has been created and named, the next step is to create a script. Chatbot
conversations follow an accompanying script. These scripts are comprised of lines of dialogue, each
designed to either deliver or capture information.

To create a chatbot script, navigate to the :guilabel:`Script` tab of the chatbot details page, and
click :guilabel:`Add a Line` to open the *Create Script Steps* form.

This form must be filled out for each line of text (dialogue) that the chatbot could potentially
deliver during the conversation.

First, enter the content of the message in the :guilabel:`Message` field. Then, select an option

> from the :guilabel:`Step Types` drop-down menu.

Author: I want to hold off on telling them to choose the "only if" option until they have a chance to read about the different step types first. Also, if this is they first step, they will not have anything to choose from in the "Only If" drop down.

dead-ends, and to get an understanding for what the visitor will see when they interact with the
chatbot.

.. important::
   If there is an answer or input provided by the visitor that is not assigned a corresponding
   follow-up response, the conversation will stop (*dead-end*). Since the visitor cannot re-engage
   the chatbot, they will have to re-start the conversation by refreshing the chat window, or their
   browser.

To test the performance of a chatbot, first click on the :guilabel:`Test` button at the top left of
the chatbot script page. Then, upon being redirected to the testing screen, answer the chatbot
prompts the same way a potential site visitor would.

When the script has reached an end-point, the message *Conversation ended...Restart* will appear at
the bottom of the chat window. To begin the conversation at the beginning of the script, click on
:guilabel:`Restart`. To return to the script page, click :guilabel:`Back to edit mode` at the top
of the page.

Add a chatbot to a channel
==========================

After a chatbot has been created and tested, it needs to be added to a livechat channel.

> First, open the :menuselection:`Live Chat` application and select the kanban card for a
> :guilabel:`Channel`, or create a :doc:`new one </applications/websites/livechat>`. Click on the
> :guilabel:`Channel Rules` tab. Open an existing rule or create a new one by clicking
> :guilabel:`Add a line`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, open the :menuselection:`Live Chat` application, and select the kanban card for a
:guilabel:`Channel`, or create a :doc:`new one </applications/websites/livechat>`. Click on the
:guilabel:`Channel Rules` tab. Then, open an existing rule, or create a new one by clicking
:guilabel:`Add a line`.
```

> On the *Rules* detail form, choose the appropriate chatbot in the :guilabel:`Chatbot` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the :guilabel:`Create Rules` pop-up detail form, choose the appropriate chatbot in the
:guilabel:`Chatbot` field.
```

> If the chatbot should only be active if there are no available live chat operators, check the box
> labeled :guilabel:`Enabled only if no operator`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the chatbot should **only** be active if there are no available live chat operators, check the
box labeled :guilabel:`Enabled only if no operator`.
```

.. image:: chatbot/chatbot-visitor-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the chat window with a helpdesk ticket created in Odoo Live Chat.

Build a chatbot
===============

Before creating a new chatbot, the *Live Chat* application must first be installed on the database.
This can be done directly from the :menuselection:`Apps` menu by searching for `Live Chat` in the
:guilabel:`search bar` and clicking :guilabel:`Install`.

Alternatively, *Live Chat* can be installed and enabled by navigating to the :menuselection:`Website
application --> Configuration --> Settings`, and checking the box labeled :guilabel:`Livechat`. Once
enabled, the database will refresh, and the *Live Chat* application is accessible.

Once the *Live Chat* application has been installed on the database, open it, and go to
:menuselection:`Configuration --> Chatbots`.

.. note::
    When the *Live Chat* app is installed, a sample chatbot is created, named *Welcome Bot*. This
    chatbot has a pre-configured script that walks through a few basic steps, including asking for a
    visitor's email address, and forwarding the conversation to an operator.

>     *Welcome Bot* can be used as a starting point. The existing steps can be edited or removed, and

Author: I went back and forth on this, however,  in this instance, it is more of an Odoo-specific term since it is a default feature that is pre-loaded when the app is installed. I'd rather keep it italicized so they know I am referring to the Odoo-provided script in this case, and not the general idea of a 'welcome bot'.

    new steps can be added to customize the script, as needed.

    *Welcome Bot* can be deleted (or archived).

    .. image:: chatbot/chatbot-welcome-bot.png
       :align: center

>        :alt: View of the the Welcome Bot script in Odoo Live Chat.

Reviewer 3: The text within this note admonition is indented by one space too many, please scoot it back a space to be aligned with the `n` in note :)

When the script has reached an end-point, the message *Conversation ended...Restart* appears at the
bottom of the chat window. To begin the conversation at the beginning of the script, click on
:guilabel:`Restart`. To return to the script page, click :guilabel:`Back to edit mode` at the top of
the page.

Add chatbot to a channel
========================

After a chatbot has been created and tested, it needs to be added to a live chat channel.

First, open the :menuselection:`Live Chat` application, and select the kanban card for a
:guilabel:`Channel`, or create a :doc:`new one </applications/websites/livechat>`. Click on the
:guilabel:`Channel Rules` tab. Then, open an existing rule, or create a new one by clicking
:guilabel:`Add a line`.

On the :guilabel:`Create Rules` pop-up detail form, choose the appropriate chatbot in the
:guilabel:`Chatbot` field.

If the chatbot should **only** be active if there are no available live chat operators, check the
box labeled :guilabel:`Enabled only if no operator`.

.. image:: chatbot/chatbot-add-to-channel.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the channel rules emphasizing the chatbot field.

.. seealso::

>     :doc:`Live chat channel rules </applications/websites/livechat>`

Reviewer 3: doc tag indented by one space too many in the seealso :)
